--Q1 Find the titles of all movies directed by Steven Spielberg.
select title 
from movie
where director = 'Steven Spielberg';

--Q2 Find all years that have a movie that received a rating of 4 or 5, and sort them in increasing order.
SELECT DISTINCT movie.year 
from rating 
inner join movie on rating.mid = movie.mid
where rating.stars = 4 or rating.stars = 5
order by movie.year;

--Q3 Find the titles of all movies that have no ratings.
select title
from movie 
where mid not in (select mid from rating);

--Q4 Some reviewers didn't provide a date with their rating. Find the names of all reviewers who have ratings with a NULL value for the date.
SELECT DISTINCT reviewer.name
from rating 
inner join reviewer on rating.rid = reviewer.rid
where ratingdate is null;

--Q5 Write a query to return the ratings data in a more readable format: reviewer name, movie title, stars, and ratingDate. 
--Also, sort the data, first by reviewer name, then by movie title, and lastly by number of stars.
SELECT reviewer.name, movie.title, rating.stars, rating.ratingdate
from rating 
inner join reviewer on rating.rid = reviewer.rid
inner join movie on movie.mid = rating.mid
order by reviewer.name, movie.title, rating.stars;

--Q6 For all cases where the same reviewer rated the same movie twice and gave it a higher rating the second time, 
--return the reviewer's name and the title of the movie.
SELECT Reviewer.name, Movie.title
FROM Rating R1, Rating R2, Reviewer, Movie
WHERE R1.rID= R2.rID
AND R1.RatingDate < R2.RatingDate
AND R1.mID = R2.mID
AND R1.stars < R2.stars
AND R2.mID = movie.mID
AND R2.rID = reviewer.rID ;

--Q7 For each movie that has at least one rating, find the highest number of stars that movie received. 
--Return the movie title and number of stars. Sort by movie title. 
SELECT Movie.title, MAX(Rating.stars)
FROM  Movie, Rating
WHERE Movie.mID = Rating.mID
GROUP BY Movie.mID
ORDER BY Movie.title;

--Q8 For each movie, return the title and the 'rating spread', that is, the difference between highest and lowest ratings given to that movie. 
-- Sort by rating spread from highest to lowest, then by movie title. 

SELECT Movie.title, Max(Rating.stars) - MIN(Rating.stars)
FROM Movie, Rating
WHERE Movie.mID = Rating.mID
GROUP BY Movie.mID
ORDER BY Max(Rating.stars) - MIN(Rating.stars) DESC, Movie.title

--Q9 Find the difference between the average rating of movies released before 1980 and the average rating of movies released after 1980. 
-- (Make sure to calculate the average rating for each movie, then the average of those averages for movies before 1980 and movies after. 
-- Don't just calculate the overall average rating before and after 1980.) 

select max(a1)-min(a1) from
(select avg(av1) a1 from
(select avg(stars) av1 from rating r join movie m on r.mid=m.mid where m.year < 1980
group by r.mid)
union
select avg(av2) a1 from
(select avg(stars) av2 from rating r join movie m on r.mid=m.mid where m.year > 1980
group by r.mid))

